#!/usr/bin/perldoc

=head1 NAME

mimicDB installation guide

=head1 AUTHOR

Daniel Nilsson, daniel.nilsson@izb.unibe.ch, daniel.nilsson@ki.se, daniel.k.nilsson@gmail.com

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009, 2010 held by Daniel Nilsson. The package is realesed for use under the Perl Artistic License.

=head1 Database setup

=head2 Install an SQL server. 

I'd suggest installing the mysql server, as the go termdb is best
developed for this. See documentation for you own operating system, or
L<http://www.mysql.com/dbownloads/mysql/>. A sample gentoo install:

 emerge dev-db/mysql
 emerge --config =dev-db/mysql-5.0.90-r2 
 rc-update add mysql default

Note that you should not give the unix root password - the default db
owner is a separate db server user.

Ensure it is currently running:

 /etc/init.d/mysql start

=head2 Download the GO database and install it.

See L<http://www.geneontology.org/GO.downloads.database.shtml> for
details and picking your favourite method.

For downloading a mysql GO-db something along the lines of 

 wget http://archive.geneontology.org/latest-termdb/go_daily-termdb-tables.tar.gz

works well at the moment. The README in the very same latest-termdb
directory will tell you how to proced. For the impatient:

 tar zxvf go_daily-termdb-tables.gz
 cd go_daily-termdb-tables
 echo "create database mygo default charset latin1" | mysql -u root -h localhost -p
 cat *.sql | mysql -u root -h localhost -p mygo
 mysqlimport -L mygo -u root -h localhost -p *.txt

You will also need assocdb, found in the latest-lite direcory of the same server.

 http://archive.geneontology.org/latest-lite/

e.g. 

 go_20100731-assocdb-tables.tar.gz
 
 tar zxvf go_20100731-assocdb-tables.tar.gz
 cd go_20100731-assocdb-tables
 mysqlimport -L mygo -u root -h localhost -p *.txt
 
The termdb from the same release can be useful if something has gone
wrong with the daily termdb dump. Actually, we would hardly use any
terms that are newer than the bi-weekly dumps, so using the archived
datestamped release for termdb is really the best course of action.

The go-dev tools package does provide scripts to install the go db
from scratch. To me, the dumps seemed more straightforward, but your
mileage may vary.

=head2 Add mimicDB specific tables and a less privileged user for access 

 cat db/mimicDB.sql | mysql -u root -h localhost -p mygo

This creates a few new tables in the mygo database, as well as a less
priviledged database user "mygo" to control access to the GO term
database, and one completely unpriviledged "mimicdb" for access from 
the web interface.

=head1 Tools for data generation

=head2 Setup Philipp Ludin's mimicry pipeline

Setup Philipp Ludin's mimicry pipeline to run on your species of
interest, or obtain readymade *-final-files for your species and place
whereveryour $DATADIR points. In the readymade case, also obtain the
original per species fasta files and also place these in the data dir.

(Philipp, perhaps we should merge these packages?)

=head2 hmmer

Obtain hmmer L<http://hmmer.janelia.org/> and install a copy of the
pfam database L<http://pfam.sbc.su.se/>/ to make additional protein
motif annotations.

Get a copy of the pfam database (>=24.0 is needed for native hmmer-3
compatibility). If you get the text version, remember to press it to
hmmer-3 binary format.

 mkdir data/pfam; cd data/pfam
 wget ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/databases/Pfam/current_release/Pfam-A.hmm.gz
 gunzip Pfam-A.hmm.gz
 hmmpress Pfam-A.hmm

NOTE: the current archive directory holds a hmmer results parsing
script for hmmer2. If you use hmmer2 and a compatible version of pfam
(<=23.0) please substitute this for the load_pfam_file.pl currently
found in the bin directory.

=head2 Phobius

Obtain Phobius L<http://phobius.sbc.su.se/> to run additional protein signal peptide and topology predictions.

=head1 Configure mimicDB

=head2 Tune the C<fill_db.sh> pipeline

Please see the fill_db.sh documentation on how to set environment
variables to reflect the location of your installation. E.g.

 perldoc bin/fill_db.sh

=head1 Visualisation

To visualise the results you will also need a web server setup.

=head2 Web server backend

Install a web server (package tested with Apache). 

Gentoo example:

 emerge apache
 rc-update add apache2 default

=head2 Titanium libraries

Install the perl Titanium package.

 perl -MCPAN -eshell 
 
and in the CPAN shell, 

 install Titanium

Depending on your installation, and Titanium version (1.04), you may
also need to install the ValidateRM plugin

 install CGI::Application::Plugin::ValidateRM

=head2 mimicDB interface

Copy the web interface files from the interface directory to wherever
you want them within your web server document tree. I would recommend
somewhere where the web server will allow execution but not reading or
browsing.

 cp interface/*pl interface/*pm /var/www/cgi-bin/

The css schema file is set to go into a directory F<mimicDB> directly
in your document root. If this is not a good location for you, please
update the C<$mycss> variable at the top of the MimicDB.pm module.

 mkdir /var/www/htdocs/mimicDB
 cp interface/*css /var/www/htdocs/mimicDB

Edit at the top of MimicDB.pm to let the variable $myurl point to
whatever your server needs, e.g.

 my $myurl = 'http://mimicDB.org/cgi-bin/mimicDB.pl';
 my $mycss = '/mimicDB/mimicDB.css';
 my $mysqluser = 'mimicdb';
 my $mysqlpasswd = 'w3bbpublIC';

=cut
